even the law of attraction you know the
i was taught the law of attraction you
know i was 23 24 years old
um also at a real estate conference they
were talking about this law of
attraction thing that there's this
energy everything's made up of energy i
am energy you are energy and my thoughts
you know create this resonance between
what i attract and what i don't i'm like
oh god i like that
you were talking about how you wrote
down these beliefs and you were reading
them over and you were doing what you're
told and you're running your finger
across you really allowing yourself to
feel it imagine it and your brain was
screaming something at you my brain was
screaming that's [__] that's not
true you're not successful you're not
earning that amount of money you're not
smart you're not this
but i was also taught at the same time
that when that happens first and
foremost that's normal that's the old
self and the old patterns trying to
fight for their life
and he said with repetition and emotion
and consistency
initially it's hard and you have to use
conscious effort
to create the new beliefs he says but
over 30 days 60 days 90 days 180 days
that new pattern that you're focusing on
and paying attention to
your brain basically says well i guess
you really don't need those old patterns
you keep activating these new ones let's
just make these ones work and let's make
these real yeah but i want to understand
what happened and and with the even the
law of attraction you know the i was
taught the law of attraction you know i
was 23 24 years old
um also at a real estate conference they
were talking about this law of
attraction thing that there's this
energy everything's made up of energy i
am energy you are energy and my thoughts
you know create this resonance between
what i attract and what i don't i'm like
oh god i like that [__] you know like i
want to attract more of the good stuff
right
um
and so i i i bought in like i bought
into stuff that just made sense to me
but then i was a voracious student i
wanted to understand how
like explain to me how it works like if
somebody tells me visualize i go why
like how does it work like he asked me
to visualize like why does it work like
why should i invest my time on that
versus something else if you're asking
me to
use affirmations like how specifically
why how does it work
if you're asking me to emotionalize well
what's happening in me that tell me i
need to create these false senses of
feelings
uh i want to know why it works and why
does it work especially emotionalizing i
think that's something that people hear
a lot i talk a lot about embodying
something really feeling it yeah but why
does it work right great question it has
to do with circuits in the brain and
neurochemicals that are released
and so when we feel something
chances are that we're going to release
dopamine in the brain the feel good
neurochemical that activates the reward
center of the brain
and chances are if we feel that
and we have this positive emotion around
it and that neurochemistry is flooding
our brain and our body with feel-good
chemicals we're actually activating the
motivational center of the brain
and so when we visualize when we set a
goal when we take an action step when we
emotionalize when we read our goals the
initial flood of neurochemicals dopamine
serotonin feel good chemicals and then
if we share it with a friend oxytocin
those three neuro chemicals those are
the neurochemicals of goal achievement
but then there's the other side of it
the other circuits of
fear of stress where norepinephrine
cortisol or epinephrine the stress
hormones can be released as well and so
i'm fascinated and i want to teach
people the stuff that we've learned
about
beliefs
self-esteem self-worth
fears
and the stuff that really holds people
back because all the how to how to get
healthy and stay healthy we know how do
i build a business and sustain we know
how do i get into a relationship and
make it successful we know we know most
of the how-to for anything that anybody
wants to do in this time frame that we
live in so the how to is the easiest
part of the equation
so the harder part of the equation is
why am i not doing the things that i
know i should be doing and why am i not
doing the things that i could find out
easily how to do
let's talk about that so in your real
estate company
you said i'm giving everyone the same
training they're reading all of the same
books and yet they're not getting the
same results and it wasn't like oh well
the smart people are doing better than
the dumb people you said sometimes it
was people that you were like god in
real life this guy's not that bright but
he's crushing it so what ended up being
the difference between the people who
didn't do anything with the information
and those that did
so in this is going back sometimes i
think in 1992 we were stuck
but i knew there was more possibility
there was there was room for growth
and
i wanted to figure out if the stuff that
i did in the 80s when i was a kid you
know that broke free
would it work with some of my agents and
so we took 75 agents randomly agents
said hey do you want to get into a
six-month program to like retrain your
brain your subconscious brain
around your beliefs about what is
possible for you to achieve around your
habits of what you have to do in order
to achieve that
and we focused on retraining their
subconscious mind
and so for six months they had to go
through a process of listening to
certain audio tapes reading reading
certain materials every day and
following the process of training their
brain specifically their subconscious
brain
which controls 95 to 98 of all of our
thoughts emotions and behaviors today
and within six months that group
increased sales by 100 million dollars
jesus 100 million dollars i said holy
[__] right this is working
uh and so we started to teach some of
what we teach now in neurogym actually
now we have the technologies we have the
systems that are far better than what we
did back in the 90s and we went from 1.2
billion to 4.5 billion a year
and it wasn't because we taught them any
more skills to be real estate agents we
taught them how to change the way they
thought about themselves we taught them
how to change their habits
our agents who made 750 000 or more were
in front of a client 75 percent of the
time
and we asked all the agents that weren't
in front of more clients like why are
you doing that like why aren't you in
front of people that are going to help
you earn more income oh well we're busy
doing this and doing this and doing this
and they had stories and excuses and
reasons why
and so part of the work that i love to
do now is is really help people
understand what is your story
like what's the story you're telling us
because we all have a story we have a
money story a relationship story a
health story we have a story for
everything and then that story keeps
recreating our lives over and over and
over again and we have beliefs that
support the story we have habits that
support the story we have people that
support the story we have systems that
support our story
and so my question i always ask people
who would you be with a different story
talk to me about set points that was
something really interesting in what you
talk about around the stories and things
that we carry that i found really
interesting sure so maxwell maltz wrote
a great book many many years ago in the
probably the 70s called psycho
cybernetics right and maxwell maltz was
a surgeon who performed surgery on
people
and what he noticed is even after
plastic surgery that he performed on
people some people didn't see any change
in their faces and it was visible to
everybody else but not to them because
they had a map of what they thought they
look like yes okay so we all have
a map of reality we have a map of what
we think we look like
and any deviation on the physical level
to that map to that visual
representation we have in our brains
that doesn't match the map your brain
deletes or distorts it
so
when we were working with real estate
agents or when i worked with business
owners in addition to upgrading
knowledge and skills
if you think about how let's say income
we have set points for how much income
we earn so whether it's 10 000 a year or
20 or 50 or 100 or a million doesn't
matter we get this set point and then we
behave the way we need to behave and we
feel what we need to feel to earn that
income
and over a period of time it becomes
part of the brain's default mode network
so we develop set points for everything
and so if the set point's in the brain
and there's a psycho-cybernetic
mechanism in the brain a control and
response mechanism
in the brain
and it's our brain
why not learn how
to reset the set point
and so now we're looking at what
technologies are available to help help
reset that
what
evidence-based methods are there to set
that or to reset that
and so when we take let's say
visualization right and you start to see
yourself even if the picture is not
clear in your mind of achieving the next
level of your success whether it's
releasing weight and keeping it off
getting into a relationship that you
love and are happy and whether it's to
make two or three or five times more
money and live a certain type of
lifestyle that allows you to do the
things that freedom
with having money allows you to do if
you start in your mind first and you
impress
that through conscious efforts into the
subconscious mind
it then causes thoughts and emotions and
behaviors
so i like to work from the outside in
and from the inside out so use both
i want every advantage
it's interesting so i've heard you now a
few times and and the first few times it
didn't really make my radar but you
always say release weight you never say
lose weight yeah what do you do when you
lose something
look for it yeah i don't want to look
for weight that i've lost
i want to release it i like to use
language patterns
as well that are going to empower me
versus disempower me
self-talk is so critical
and so i'm consistently paying attention
to how am i speaking to myself
am i speaking to myself in a kind
motivating
empathetic compassionate way
or am i consistently self-deprecating
and putting myself down i used to think
a lot like when i was younger i'm not
good enough i'm not smart enough i'm not
worthy
um those thoughts uh and you know lots
of fear fear of being embarrassed fear
of failure fear of being ashamed and i
still have the thoughts every once a
while especially when i'm setting new
goals those come up holy mackerel they
come up so freaking fast
are you smart enough to achieve that are
you good enough to achieve that even
when i got into really diving deep into
the brain science and even my new book i
had i was petrified to release my book
it took me two years to write it because
now i'm entering another whole domain of
neuroscience and neuropsychology with
world-renowned experts that i've worked
with for years
but now here i am putting myself out
there with hey this is
neuroscientifically correct so i had to
make sure that it was
and but there's a lot of fear
but i understand what the emotion of
fear is it's a subconscious trigger that
causes this feeling that i don't like
and it's a ghost signal for me not a
stop signal for me that's interesting
what do you mean by that
well fear is an emotion emotions are all
triggered at the subconscious level
they release neurochemicals that causes
a feeling we are consciously aware of
feelings
that are triggered at the subconscious
level the feeling is the end point
of the human experience in the physical
body
and so when you have something in your
brain that that a neural network says
well
uh what if this book comes out and you
fail what if it's not good enough what
is scientifically not correct what if
what if what if my brain is going to
process that the same way as your brain
and everybody else because that's
everybody's brain's the same the
mechanism of how the brain works it's
einstein's brain hitler's brain genghis
khan's brain
tom bilio's brain john acetate all the
same functionality
so if you understand the mechanics of
what's supposed to happen
then you say okay great when i feel this
then what am i going to do
so i like to use an analogy of a car
you're driving a car
and you're talking to a friend of yours
and a light pops up on the dash you
don't take a hammer and hit a light
it's a signal something's happening in
the in the in the in the engine in the
trunk in the in the tires something's
happening emotions and feelings aren't
uh positive or negative
they're
empowering or disempowering to varying
degrees if you don't understand them
and so if you think about fear right
how does a firefighter
go into a burning building
when there's this enormous adrenaline
and an epinephrine you know that could
stop most people dead in their tracks
they learn
here's the feeling it's normal
do you have the knowledge and the skills
and the preparation to deal with this in
a safe way
go
if you don't now you retreat so we have
this phenomenal brain right it's it's
it's genius abilities we can't figure
out how to
replicate it anywhere with billions of
dollars
but we are getting some of the user's
manual now
so when you feel fear what should you do
i teach the first two inner sizes that i
teach every one of our students number
one is called take six calm the circuits
so if you have this unpleasant anxious
fearful emotion energy in motion
right and it's unpleasant and the breaks
have gone on
if you just take six deep breaths in
through your nose
out through your mouth like you're
breathing through a straw you will
deactivate the stress response center
which means blood is going to go back to
the left prefrontal cortex the einstein
part of the brain can actually think
through this problem because what
happens when the stress response center
is activated blood goes away from that
into the fear response so you have
epinephrine cortisol adrenaline to be
able to get you out of this situation
it's part of our instinctual brain part
of the reptilian brain the first part of
the brain that was developed was that
then the mammalian brain the limbic
system then the neocortex the thinking
brain
so when our brain has this signal of oh
my god you might get hurt you might lose
this you might get in trouble you might
be embarrassed ashamed ridiculed judged
etc
that part of the brain is going to get
activated so if you take six deep
breaths first calm down calm the
circuits first
then do inner size number two is called
aya aia
the first day is for awareness
what am i thinking right now what am i
feeling right now what am i sensing
right now
what is my behavior right now
to you thoughts feelings sensations
awareness of behavior what's my
intention right now that's the eye
well my intention is to move forward i
want to do this
great what's one
very small action step that you can take
now the reason you want to take one
small action step
is one small action step
your brain can handle if it's one small
step towards it the threat response goes
away
but if you focus on the end game right
you're gonna get that rush and that
instant trigger of the fear response
stress response so the first thing you
want to do is learn how to manage your
mindset
and what you focus on learn how to
manage your emotions because they drive
your behavior more than anything else
because we move away from pain and we
move towards pleasure but we move away
from pain a thousand times faster and
pain wires in the brain faster for
survival mechanisms
so purely from a neuroscience
perspective just understanding self once
you understand okay this feeling is
normal okay what should i do
take six con the circuits
ayah
and now you can start being progressive
and make progress towards what you want
now while you're in the you know in the
uh what am i thinking feeling it's a
chance to be aware and the biggest gift
we have as human beings
is our awareness
because awareness is what gives you
choice
and choice is what gives you freedom
most people are living their lives in a
reactive state automatic reactive state
because of these set points that we
talked started talking about so we're in
this repetitive cycle over and over and
over and over we react to the same
things we behave the same way we eat the
same foods we dress the same way just to
maintain that homeostasis and comfort
zones and we've never been taught like
when were we taught as kids like here
are your six core emotions
here's the way you deactivate you know
your stress center or fear so here's how
you activate your imagination center
here's how you have more focus here's
how you develop a new belief here's how
you develop a new habit here's how you
release one we haven't been taught that
we've been told they're important things
but we haven't been given the tools
and then we haven't practiced the tools
enough to be able to make them part of
our unconscious competence brain
so how do you do some of those things i
mean that was a pretty extraordinary
list and i'll say um beliefs
releasing beliefs habits releasing
habits like that is really interesting
so what is a belief i mean think about
what is a belief
and let's go to again i'd like to just
like to go to the neuroscience fields
because just my passion now is a belief
is nothing more than a group of cells
that have been connected and then
reinforced and we have two types of
beliefs we have beliefs that whatever
i'm going to stop you there because
that's so important
and so different than i would have
expected i think when people hear belief
it is believing something that is true
which did not enter into your definition
no we believe whatever we believe is
truth for us but it's not the truth
that's really interesting right but we
have been conditioned
if we go back a little bit to um
what we talked about earlier about you
know when you were a baby when you were
born what belief did you have
zero goose egg zero not one
and so you learned what to believe and
how to even formulate your beliefs
chances are from parents
teachers
brothers sisters television maybe when
you read some books
right and we behave based on what we
believe
so we might be behaving our lives away
based on false or inaccurate or
disempowering beliefs
so if a belief is a neural pattern in
the brain
then we probably have some good ones
empowering ones useful ones and chances
are we have some that are not useful not
empowering and not worthy of the
geniuses that we all are
so the question is
is it possible for me to develop
new beliefs that i don't believe right
now
the answer is yeah
yes what does that process look like
so
the process is you can read new beliefs
to life
and so if you listen
to beliefs that are empowering
over and over and over again and you
emotionalize them
and you visualize yourself actually
acting out those beliefs and you learn
how to pay attention to that little
inner critic that says that's [__]
that's not true that'll never come true
that's not you if you learn and you
remember that that little voice is there
to consistently keep you in this
homeostatic
place and it's there to protect the
beliefs that are there now
the latest research shows that to
develop you know a new pattern takes
between 66 days and 365 days
how do you help people
be consistent long enough to form that
like when people talk about oh it takes
28 days to form a new habit it's like
okay i can get my head around that but
when you start talking about 100 days
365 days it gets pretty daunting for
adults yeah it does um so you have to
use intrinsic and extrinsic motivation
so you have to
start everybody off well why is it
important for you to be able to develop
these new beliefs like what will your
life be like if you had them right now
what would your family life be like you
have to give them a benefit that's
greater than the switch cost
that's interesting right so the switch
cost is something that our brain resists
the only human that likes change is a
wet baby
[Laughter]
every other human being is resistant to
it because
safety first and homeostasis and energy
conservation so we are biologically
wired not to want to change
so we have to deliberately coax the
brain
into
motivational reasons emotional reasons
you have to have intrinsic reason why
must you do this
and so you can use pain as a frame as
well so if you don't then are you okay
with your life being like this at this
age in five years and 10 years and 20
years
and if you're okay with that then you're
not a candidate for change but if you're
committed to letting go of the old so
you can create the new
and you create motivations every day
that's where the power is remember
earlier progress not perfection so
anybody can do
one minute or
10 seconds so if you can start to
formulate a habit a daily habit a weekly
habit
it doesn't matter how long it is
if you can create that space in your
brain that on this day at this time this
is what i do and you do that repeatedly
that becomes a habit and it takes those
66 days or so for a simple habit
that you have to consciously do
to then the habit doing you
and that's why they say we are all
creatures of
habit because habits run their
themselves their subconscious programs
just run themselves most people don't
take the time to become aware what are
my empowering habits what are my
disempowering habits
and then the next question is well how
do i release this one and how do i
strengthen this one or create a whole
new one
and what we're looking to do is build
empowering habits that then
run their course what is up my friend
tom bill you here and i have a big
question to ask you how would you rate
your level of personal discipline on a
scale of one to ten if your answer is
anything less than a ten i've got
something cool for you and let me tell
you right now discipline by its very
nature means compelling yourself to do
difficult things that are stressful
boring which is what kills most people
or possibly scary or even painful now
here is the thing achieving huge goals
and stretching to reach your potential
requires you to do those challenging
stressful things and to stick with them
even when it gets boring and it will get
boring building your levels of personal
discipline is not easy but let me tell
you it pays off in fact i will tell you
you're never going to achieve anything
meaningful unless you develop discipline
all right i've just released a class
from impact theory university called how
to build ironclad discipline that
teaches you the process of building
yourself up in this area so that you can
push yourself to do the hard things that
greatness is going to require of you
right click the link on the screen
register for this class right now and
let's get to work i will see you inside
this workshop from impact theory
university until then my friends be
legendary peace out
all right one thing i'd be remiss not to
ask you about before we go are the three
boards so vision boards accomplished
boards and the one i don't know about
the crap boards so crap board so
vision board for seeing what you want
the accomplish board for reminding
yourself that you've got a lot to uh
that you've accomplished so you feel
good and the crap do you actually put up
images of things you've accomplished
uh-huh yeah yeah i have them in my
closet in my home
encased
on the floor
like on the floor so that you don't look
at them so you know i look at no so i
look at them just because i i i sit down
and put on my shoes i want to look at
them every day interesting yeah on my um
i have i have this ritual as well i do
something called brush and prime so on
my bathroom
mirror i have my goals that are on my
mirror so that as i'm brushing my teeth
i'm priming my brain to see my goals in
front of me every morning and every
night i love that right so that's
priming your brain which is a whole
other topic we can have and then the
accomplishment boards reminds me
whenever i look at the stuff that have
accomplished i go
that wasn't easy i mean there was a lot
of ups downs highs lows failures you
know times i thought i'd quit and i
didn't so it's to remind me to go
through the times
that i don't think i'm going to be able
to achieve those things and then the
crap board stands for conflict
uh resistance
accomplishments
and procrastination so what conflicts
are are happening right now that i need
to resolve
um what resistance is in my way is what
are my resistance what in front of me is
resisting right now
and then accomplishment as well as to
remind you that you can get through
stuff and then procrastination is what's
causing me to procrastinate
so if you create a crap board as well
you have that in front of you and then
you can create a game plan for what am i
going to do about it what am i going to
do about the conflicts what would you
put on a board for conflicts is it a
picture of a person oh it could be a
person that you're having conflict with
it could be uh something you're trying
to to figure out that's conflicting
whether it's in your company a
department uh whether you're having
conflicting thoughts of should you do it
shouldn't you and there's uncertainty
any conflicts that you are experiencing
is going to create neural dissonance in
your brain it's just going to create
chaos in your brain
and so if you take it out of your head
and you put it on a sheet of paper you
can look at it and now you're one step
removed from what's happening in your
brain
and so um the more you can be in
coherence
it's the equivalent of being part of a
band that's in harmony that every player
is just like oh man this just sounds so
good
well the more you can be in coherence
the more you're going to be in flow and
the more you're going to take action the
more chaos there is in the brain neural
chaos whether it's because of emotions
you're lacking something this conflict
there's resistance the more you can get
it out into the
in front of you and open and say well
what's causing this
the easier it is for that einstein brain
to say okay maybe i could do this maybe
i can do that but i can also call a
friend or a mentor or a coach or i can
research it
how does it get that big how does the
topic sort of expand so far what is it
that people are getting wrong and what
are some of the like universal
principles that are going to lead people
to um i'll say wealth and it's probably
worth defining how would you define
wealth and then we'll go back to those
two questions
in my mind wealth is uh an emotion
you know it doesn't really matter how
much you have how much you make
because i've interviewed over the course
of my career i've interviewed
millionaires and billionaires and some
of them are very unhappy and very upset
with everything i'm sure you've met some
happy ones and very unhappy ones so
and also among the people
who are struggling with life they are
also happy people and unhappy people so
i think wealth is an attitude if you
feel like you're so happy and so content
with what you have you are already
wealthy but if you have uh
you have if you have to struggle every
day and you cannot find happiness
either in your business or in personal
life i think you're not wealthy even if
you have billions in your bank account
but that doesn't mean that you don't
have to have money
that's what i like about your approach
is there there is a recognition so part
of the reason that i think that people
continue to strive for money i lived the
nightmare of money can't buy you
happiness i had heard a thousand people
tell me that money wasn't gonna buy me
happiness that you know pursuing money
outright was gonna end up being a
problem and i still had to do it and
when i ran into the wall of oh really
truly money cannot buy you happiness how
is it that i ended up here when all the
people told me that this was going to be
the outcome why did i have to walk this
path like why couldn't i just accept
their wisdom and i realized that one of
the things that people don't talk about
is that money really is powerful money
is you call it energy um i'll call it
power like money gives you the ability
to close your eyes
imagine something that you want to
create and then open your eyes and
actually be able to do it and if you
have the skill set of course and so
there there's real utility in money and
when people talk about in and i've heard
you say before i don't want to get too
spiritual like i want to keep this
grounded and i think that that's really
important because if you tell people hey
forget about money because money doesn't
matter there's going to be a turn off
but if you tell people hey forget about
money because it's going to reorient
your mindset it's going to change your
behaviors it's going to align your
behaviors to something that's actually
going to
allow you to generate actual money
then i think that it draws people in a
little bit more so with that context i
want to go back to the two questions so
what are the mistakes that people make
and what are some universal things
people need to understand if they
actually want to
be wealthy in the way that you just
defined
so i think most of us
the biggest problem i think especially
today is that we are so afraid of money
and so as much as we want money we are
so scared of it so uh why do you say
that i think that that hit me is very
counterintuitive
why why do you think people are scared
of money it's because of a money trauma
i call it money wounds that we we've had
since our childhood we used to have some
uh unless your parents are perfect and
unfortunately it's not the case in in in
any any culture so we've been scolded
about money you know we spend too much
we wasted the money or we denied a
karate lesson or soccer lesson or a
ballet lesson or piano lessons because
it's expensive
some of my friends were taught you are
not worth it well that's like that's a
big blow so uh we've been denied so many
times around money so that's why as much
as we want money because we feel
uh money can buy happiness so money
money can buy at least freedom but at
the same times money
have been abused abused us for so many
ways so as much as we want to get close
to it but if we get too close to it we
get burned or like hurt so
for a lot of people money is a mystery
person
so how do they begin to change that
relationship i'm assuming some of this
is going to be just narrative around how
they talk to themselves about money what
do you advise people you have to start
watching your your language
my mother used to say that
and then uh around money especially
a lot of people say like you know i was
ripped off so there are so many negative
language around money and my mentor has
said you have to use positive words
around money otherwise money will not
like you
and i really i thought it's very cute
you know and then uh
in my book i talk about
what if uh if if money were a person who
would it be like is that a person a
gentle person or angry person so just um
you know
you have to pay attention to how you
relate to money
if you just um
feel like money is just a thing like you
don't care but if you don't care
you know you end up being in debt so you
have to be very careful and respectful
for money
for some japanese people actually one of
my students
made futon in a bed for a wallet
it's so cute
to to show respect you know why i rest
please money and credit cards please
rest here too so it's like a little bed
like like a cat cat bed
and then you're supposed to put your
wallet into the bed so it's just a
metaphor but unless you show respect to
money and the money coming in money
going out both ways
you cannot really feel you cannot feel
peaceful around money especially
this hard time of economy you have to
really um pay close attention to your
emotions and most of us are so
controlled by uh anxiety and fear and
money that's why do things which are not
really true to us to in order to survive
so we feel like uh if we have no money
we cannot survive that means your death
so uh the funny switch is turned on uh
it's i think it's a survival mechanism
um you know 200 years ago or 300 years
ago everybody was a farmer nobody's
you know probably don't use much money
but
now unless you have money you you cannot
buy food so
money and survival are so tight in your
system
so as people begin to
tell themselves a new narrative they
build the futon bed for their wallet
they think about who that person is
and they i'm guessing a lot of people
are going to think of that person as
abusive or
you know
they wander off and they don't have a
good relationship with that so how do
they begin to change their mindset
around that how do they begin to to
turn that narrative do you do you tell
them to imagine somebody who is kind or
gentle
what is that process
so uh but since we we've been abused we
feel like we've been abused by this
person we're a little scared of this
person right so i think the first step
is actually the step that my mentor
takeda taught me that is arigato your
money
thank you money when money comes in
either by in a form of government check
or a salary or commission or whatever um
the money you receive
you say thank you arigato thank you
money for coming in
because in these days it's so so rare to
find you and then and pay you somebody
pays you right it either could be
government or your husband wife or your
clients
there are so many other people who do
the similar job that you do but they
chose you to pay you so like there are
millions of reasons to appreciate for
the money so when money comes in just
say
thank you or arigato or danke or
whatever your language or mercy you know
and and then when you spend money
also arigato you know because you're
getting something for the money and uh
what i said arigato in arigato out
so it's almost like a karate kid
teaching you know what sing works out so
he said uh arigato and arigato al if you
do it for two months and then come back
so like oh i wanted to have some stock
tips or like investment tips or i
expected something different but the the
thing i got is arigato inaudible and i
practice for two months and i felt
genuinely happier
so i recommend anybody uh you know
just
try it at least because it doesn't cost
you anything and once you start
appreciating money coming in money going
out you start appreciating about other
things so this uh arigato and arigato
out opens a door
to a new life which is full of
appreciation and i think we definitely
need that uh waher said appreciation
melts fear and anxiety
so if you start and if you keep
appreciating money coming and going out
you cannot worry about money at the same
time because a human mind can focus one
thing at the time so why he has a a very
interesting unique trick uh of um
so like changing our
wire in the brain so once you start
appreciating
it's so funny because one of my students
said oh gee ken i forgot to worry about
money for a week
because you folk focus on appreciation
yeah i think this is really powerful is
is a very important first step and when
i think about my own journey um
i won't say that i had a negative view
about money and if you had asked me to
describe what money was i probably would
have whoever i could think of that was
like glamorous and exciting and powerful
like that was my vision of money which
is why i was chasing it so hard
[Music]
ultimately coming to understand okay i'm
making more money than i've ever made
but i'm not happier than i've ever been
and the neurochemistry that i want to
feel like this is not taking me there
and so i began to what
what i began to do was change my
behavior so i changed my story about
money that what i flipped over into was
the only thing that matters is feeling
alive so i'm gonna stop chasing money
i'm going to start thinking about value
and so i had a very negative connotation
around money and i just said look i'm
going to set that aside for now and i'm
just going to pursue
fulfillment i'm going to do things to
add value to people's lives i'm going to
work to improve myself that was a huge
part for me was always wanting to get
better myself
and what i found was i needed both i
needed a change of mindset i needed to
stop thinking money was going to solve
my problems but i also needed to change
my behaviors and ultimately i don't i no
one is ever going to think their way to
success
i think that
you're you
you have to think in a new way that is
advantageous but you have to act in a
new way that's advantageous so after you
know when you do the wax on wax off like
eventually we do find ourselves in a
karate tournament and we really do have
to fight yes so what does that look like
especially now in this crazy economy
that we're going through right now
let's get let's go to that next phase so
people are they're already arigato money
in arigato money out they've got the
futon for their wallet like they're in a
zen place like they're doing good now
like you retired at 29 not just because
you were thinking you retired at 29
because you ran businesses you got very
thoughtful about how to generate money
and save it
how should people be acting with their
money so we get now how they should be
thinking but how should they be acting
with their money thank you tom i think
it's a beautiful question and i i think
that's exactly what we need to learn
but because
once you start appreciating your life
shifts too
for example one of the readers on my
book
she was a single mom with a low paying
job she was working as a secretary and
then she came to me and she used to
complain about
her low paying job but after reading my
book she
changed her attitude and she started
appreciating about life and boss and and
she realized that she didn't have a
college degree
but she got she was hired as a secretary
so that's a big reason to appreciate her
boss
before she was always complaining about
him
and i think the feeling really probably
came across to his uh her boss and she
got a big raise uh in a few weeks
so once you start appreciating i i've
heard so many stories i can even write
few books on this
once you start appreciating your boss
your clients
they appreciate you back
so
in my 20s the reason why i
was successful was i was a little uh
unique
in so many different different things
for example when i was doing accounting
consulting i divided my uh clients to
two groups one i do regular job the
other i always
bring something whenever i got to meet
them just a herb tea japanese tea like a
book or just not super expensive
so in six months i got so many referrals
from the the gift giving groups you know
i didn't ask for any clients right but
they gave me uh so many referrals and
the second you know uh group uh not so
much so uh i
recommend everybody to start giving more
uh something a little extra nuts like 30
more but something to to show
appreciation and
uh it doesn't really matter if you're
florist or cleaners or
business lawyers or a dentist if you
start giving something you get more so
this is the law i think if you give more
um you receive more and then there's one
more extra reason to appreciate about so
you you your life would shift so your
whole energy will be so different and so
content and i think people want to do
business with happier people you know
people don't want to go with people who
are very depressed
so the people with the radiance of
appreciation often attracts uh more
people and more opportunities so this is
not a new age or a spiritual thing it's
a practice to to um to appreciate more
so what you appreciate appreciates and i
think it's it's so simple so start
appreciating about money is the first
step and then
second step is start appreciating what
you have
and if you start sharing what you have i
call it gift
uh all of us have gifts i've written
probably like
half of my books 20 books on how to
discover your gifts and monetize them
because uh we're born each of us is born
with a special gift and something to be
shared with this planet and if you can
find it and if you can uh improve it and
you can you can polish it and just share
with a society i think
that translates into money so i wrote a
national bestseller
do what you love and make sure money
follows you so it's very important you
have to have both
so talk to me about that so the hearing
i've heard you say that before that
you've written
that many books on um finding your gifts
so one i'd like to know what that
process is i'm not a big believer and i
get this is um it'll be interesting to
see your take on this i'm not a big
believer that we're born with something
um
but i think that we can polish like
you're saying and really turn that into
something um how do people find it
and then how do they polish it
you know i taught uh
probably personally over hundreds of
thousands of people you know through
seminars and my coaching
i do a big event a few thousand people
at a time
and i do a lot of q a's so i have this
track record of how people found their
gifts
and some people find find them when
they're very young you know when you're
five or six or seven you your neighbor
finds out that you're very good at chess
and then he ends up being being champion
i've interviewed a japanese champion
once and some geniuses are found that
way but most of us are not that way
right we're not olympic athletes or
we're not superstars so
most of us are not born with only one
gift we are born with several mediocre
gifts like
like i was i think i i i had a gift of
speaking i had a gift of teaching i had
the gift of making jokes i make i make
jokes all the time and money could be
very boring so and money is there are so
many funny stories especially couples
but anyway so you know so there are many
gifts small gifts but you have to
multiply them and then you become one
and only
so so i know where you're going with
that before we get to how you chain them
together
how do you find them because that what
you just said really resonates with me
you've got minor gifts mediocre gifts i
think was your exact phrase i love that
okay so you've got these mediocre things
inside of you how do you how do you find
them like i don't i don't know that
people and i know what you're the three
things that you chained together are and
that'll be really interesting to hear
you talk about that especially the third
one which haven't mentioned yet um
how do people identify that and maybe
you walking us through how you found
your three will be super useful
so you know some people find it by
coincidence you know some people find
out that your your friend would say hey
ken you're good at speaking like
what you know because gifts are funny
thing it comes so naturally out of you
so you don't even notice it so even if
you're good at singing you're good
speaking you're good at connecting
people that's another gift yeah i think
you have the special gift of connecting
people to
so if you have even if you have so many
gifts you don't realize them unless you
you recognize them and oftentimes
i do
guide
people to find their gifts and in the
process they realize like oh gee all
these years i've never i've known that i
had the gift but i never recognized it
as a gift because how do you guide
people through that do you have them ask
themselves questions yes or survey their
friends some questions that people can
go through
literally a thousand yes so for example
one of the questions is like uh when uh
when you were small uh what what were
the nicknames and then the nicknames
have strong something
by the way my nickname was a teacher
because i was like teaching kids
other kids so like nicknames have
certain uh characteristics already or
like uh when your kids uh what were you
scolded
for uh when i was small my mother used
to say you know you talk too much don't
talk
that means i had the gift of talking
because i want to express myself so when
you're escorted about something that is
a gift
but you thought it's a negative it's
it's your
actually it's your flaws instead of
thinking it's a gift so there are
thousands of questions and then when you
just
show a light on that you realize wow i
just never thought that i had so many
gifts and then once you kind of like
recognize one by one by one and then
start sharing um without thinking much
you know you don't have to be at this
point you don't have to be strategic
about uh what what's going to happen
because it's well you know fun things
will come out you never know
i've seen so many fun uh
miracles happening to people's lives so
you discover certain gifts and then
once you realize the gifts will come out
on its own it's a so interesting organic
mechanism that because you're so
inspired by
sharing your gifts because more you
share your people love it love it and uh
you know your listeners who love your
shows they're waiting for your shows
they'll be upset if you just get a sick
leave or something right
so that people give you energy so once
this cycle starts and you appreciate
them for supporting you
it grows and grows and grows
exponentially and then when that happens
you don't want to stop
and then at some level it will translate
into money so that's let's talk about
that so there there's a gap there that i
think a lot of people fall into and
don't know how to get out of so let's
say that they they do the exercise they
you know think about what they were into
when they were young they think about
what they got scolded for nicknames all
of that stuff just things that they find
interesting and they go okay cool these
are the things that i think that i'm
it's a mediocre talent but i'm willing
to polish it and make it bigger how do
they monetize that like how do they
actually turn that into money yeah so
that is a miracle and also a fun part of
life because you never know one of my
students was an insurance salesperson
and he didn't sell a lot because he
didn't want to push people i'm sure a
lot of people can relate to that and one
day he was he was told to do cold calls
he so he had to go to the uh one big
house
where there was a german shepherd and
then
he knew that he loves dogs and you know
some people dog lovers dogs know you
know who they are so when he was uh in
the house and and he didn't and then he
says beware dog but he didn't really
care so the dog the dog didn't really uh
shout on him and bark at him and the
owner uh grandmother was so impressed
because everybody was harassed by this
dog you know mailman and a delivery man
and so she thought it's you know it's
interesting so why don't you come up to
my house and have a cup of tea
and then he was invited in and and then
she fell in love with this guy because
you know uh whoever um
her dog loves
this person means he's a good man and
then
she was a head figure in this
entire neighborhood so he could sell so
many insurance policies
and later on he found this dog club and
then
so like a
they do only barbecues you know they do
nothing but with dogs you know by the
riverside and they go on a trip and so
all he does is not selling insurance but
since he he has he's surrounded by so
many people you know there's a need for
insurance he gets it there's another
insurance uh salesperson who she loved
cooking so she kind of like did the
cooking classes right for free
and and the cooking classes grew and uh
she ended up being
the cooking class teacher but uh she
sold so many insurance policies
on the way and she found more passion in
cooking so he she quit the insurance
business but
in the process of expressing and finding
who you are happy money follows you so
forget about money is that teaching
but you know at the same time don't
forget it completely you have to make
both ends meet so that's you know i have
this accounting consulting background so
i'm a very practical person so you have
to make sure all the bills are paid in
appreciation and at the same time grow
um your your energy um the most biggest
problem that we have is that we are
depressed with our lives
so we don't have hopes we're not excited
about our lives how much of the brain is
allocated to sight and then what have
you begun to sort of re-engage with the
world now that you don't have vision
sure so sites obviously very important
evolutionarily biologically but it's not
everything
and it's certainly not infallible
and uh in some respects i think you know
as i was saying that i think there's a
an interesting metaphor uh to be made or
interesting lessons to draw from the way
in which
uh we experience uh sight as this
all-consuming uh you know passive
reality um you know versus what's what's
sort of really going on in the world and
what's really going on in our minds and
and site's a crazy thing i apologize if
i'm rambling but uh so some
electromagnetic light hits the back of
our eyes you know our retinas
photoreceptor cells in the back of the
eye respond to that light send a signal
to the brain we call the part of the
electromagnetic spectrum that our eyes
respond to the visible spectrum right
well that spectrum of light of
electromagnetic radiation is 1 10
trillionth of the total spectrum of
electromagnetic radiation that's out
there
so you know we got this back of the eye
that responds to 1 10 trillionth
of electromagnetic the electromagnetic
radiation in our world
from that you know we create this
abstracted unique personal virtual world
that involves like i said all sorts of
things that have nothing to do with data
from the eyes the site itself is really
only about 10 data from the eyes
and yet we walk around or sighted folks
walk around thinking that they you know
quote unquote know what the world looks
like
the idea is
crazy it's nonsense
if that to me is is one of the most
powerful things about your book it and
in fact the reason that you've said you
wrote the book wasn't for people with
disabilities or blindness specifically
certainly but that you wanted your kids
to read it one day so that they would
have that frame of reference so that
they would understand that basically
you're living in this virtual
representation like you said it gave me
the chills that only 10 percent of
vision is
created from the data that's coming from
your eyes and so the rest is being
constructed it's being constructed by
what right so once you realize that your
brain is constructing the world around
you and it doesn't necessarily always
serve you then it empowers you to start
making choices about not only what to
believe but perspective how to see
things and so taking that
perspective shift you've talked a lot
about fear very powerfully
what is it what is fear
why is it such a potent force in our
life and with new perspective what can
we do to it sure so you know real world
experience have you ever had uh you know
the experience where you spot someone
across the room you walk over tap them
on the shoulder and it's a complete
stranger it turns out right
so you know we say
very quickly we say oh we thought it was
our friend or we thought it was our
colleague and that's just not true we
knew it right and you're in your world
in your reality your friend was there
right and then it turned out they
weren't
so
uh
fear
we if we're not careful we can
experience uh much the same way fear is
this this natural response it serves an
evolutionary purpose to be sure it's
very helpful in a lot of ways uh but
it's also powerfully destructive so fear
is this mechanism that sort of fills in
the unknown right when we when we
confront uh times of change times of
crisis you know when we're uncertain you
know our fears kick in and we fill in
really the worst case scenario right we
awful as i call just call it awfulizing
which i think is a great term but you
know we fill in the worst case scenario
and we have all these dark imaginings
and these are things that we tell
ourselves they're machinations of our
own mind but
much like that friend at that party
these aren't things that we think we
experience them as things that we know
right if we're not careful
when i was first diagnosed with my
binding disease
i knew that blindness was going to ruin
my life right
it meant i was going to live a wholly
unremarkable life small and sad uh i
would never you know it would be the end
of achievement for me i thought i'd
never have a family
uh because uh you know i wasn't even
gonna love or respect myself how could i
expect someone else to level respect me
and on and on and on and these were lies
born of my fears
uh born of ignorance uh but uh for some
time
i knew them to be true
and uh i think uh had i not had the
blessing of this
uh this sort of shattering of the
illusion of sight itself that i speak of
they sort of peek behind the curtains
into sort of uh you know the way the
mind works the wizard behind the
curtains right if i hadn't learned to
see through those fears eyes wide open i
i would have i mean that's the world i
would have lived that would have been my
life and the only difference is
perspective it's in here it's nothing
out there
in the world so uh
you know like i said this this is this
journey of mine losing my sight and then
gaining this vision has been
immeasurably rewarding for me and
fulfilling and it's been
one of the best things that happened
that makes so much sense to me when i
think about
the man behind the curtain or the you
know the wizard of oz once you realize
that they're there
that's been really potent in my life as
well so when
i first started on my entrepreneurial
journey
i was a total mess and i had no idea how
to make the things happen that i wanted
to make happen and i found that my own
ego was getting in my way and that once
i realized that my ego was based on
something and i could change what that
was that i could flip that around then
all of a sudden i could value myself
based on
being a learner being willing to admit
that i was wrong instead of trying to be
smart right or whatever
and that was really transformative and
being able to visualize the structures
of the brain
being able to understand from an
evolutionary perspective why i was set
up to be fearful or whatever was
incredibly powerful do you find that
being able to um becoming aware of the
visual tricks because you've said that
things would morph right before your
eyes as you were
losing your sight i think one time you
said you went to wash your hands and
realize you were actually touching a
urinal and but it looked like a sink
until you finally realized it was a
urinal um does being able to visualize
the the physical mechanisms of the brain
help you with things other than sight oh
sure absolutely and you know as you said
i mean the the
the value in this this eyes wide open
vision that you know that i speak of is
is you know it's
it's not about sight it's not about
blindness it's it's about the lessons we
can take uh you know in in really taking
control over the reality we want for
ourselves literally choosing
who you want to be and how you want to
live your life uh in any moment right so
yes we do this with sight but we do it
with the
self-limiting assumptions we make about
ourselves you know we do it with the way
we misperceive
success and weakness and failure and
strength in life which with the way that
we uh i think uh
really misperceive
luck the force of a lock in life uh our
insecurities our vanities are our
seeming uh
struggle to listen to each other let
alone to our own hearts and and on and
on and on so this really is for me it's
it's uh it's
it's my daily philosophy right it's it's
it takes effort
there was no uh aha moment right up on
some hill where it all
you know flipped you know switch flipped
and it all became perfect for me
i struggle with it every day some days
i'm not so good at it but it is my
aspiration and it's certainly worthwhile
i think on the days where you're not so
good at it what actually is happening
you know there are times still when i
you know have have fears when i fear
failure right when i wrestle with that
critic in my mind telling me all sorts
of awful things when i you know am
uncareful and find that i'm um
projecting on to others insecurities or
vanities that are really all my own and
step one is being conscious of it and
being aware of it uh but that doesn't
always mean it's super easy to overcome
it but i i try again you know to i hold
myself uh accountable above all else for
my role
in in in shaping you know the reality
that i experience in every moment
so i do try to you know talk to my i do
talk to myself often and say listen
you're feeling lousy you're worried
about this you're scared about that
you're upset about this and you know
it's okay you're human but let's let's
pull it apart and you know let's go
through the strategies that i've uh
developed over the years to to you know
overcome those things so i want to get
into some of those strategies that in
the book one of the most incredible
parts was when you buy the cement
company in orlando which by the way when
you look back on it and becomes insanely
successful like there's a safety net to
that we've all already landed we know it
works out right but you didn't know that
it was gonna work out you've got your
business partners like telling you hey
it took me 20 years to
you know save up and protect my family
financially you ruined it in three
months your
mom is having to offer you money for you
to keep the company going you've already
had to tell your wife that we're gonna
have to declare personal bankruptcy
move in with their parents right just to
really make it fun yeah and in the book
you actually walk through like step by
step what your brain was telling you the
critics so you you differentiate between
the critic and the strong man which i
want to hear more about and then you
really walk through like super raw and
vulnerable
those steps what what was that like for
you going through that and how what were
the mechanisms or the just the dialogue
in your brain that you used to silence
the critic sure so you know it's it's uh
i i wanted so badly to
surrender gracefully the company we
bought was toxic it was hemorrhaging
money and it looked like you know we had
lost everything and then i had this this
lifeline from uh from my mom this offer
of essentially her life savings
to try to save my business and
that was uh it was almost uh an unwanted
offer right i i wanted so desperately
like i said to just kind of give up but
again you're sort of putting my money
where my mouth is on this sort of
philosophy and taking a step back to you
know really hold myself accountable for
uh you know the choices i was going to
make and what i wanted in life you know
on the inside of the business we were
even more excited about the vision
we were super excited about our team
uh we felt we could bring you know
technology and professionalism to a very
unsophisticated industry
and so
logically rationally
uh you know with with some money with
some time you know we could turn the
ship around and that was certainly a
better approach than than giving up
right
so uh
you know when when you're honest with
yourself and and you know the right uh
step you got to make and uh you know
you got to do it and you got to get
yourself there what i love is looking at
your life it'd be really easy to dismiss
you as just being unnaturally
smart and just saying like look this
guy's a [__] genius like it is what
it is i could never do what he does and
what i found so empowering about your
book what i think is so cool about what
you're doing in this phase of your life
is in the book you you walk people
through where you're saying
you're putting this map together of
these incredible entrepreneurs that have
come before you that have been bold but
you're not that good like you're never
going to live up to that
and i was just like whoa whoa wait a
second like
the guy who it would be tempting for me
to just dismiss as being a naturally
smart is saying it's easy for him to
like dismiss other people as being
unnaturally smart and it is this
so natural thing for everybody to have
that voice in their head that says that
they can't do it and then the the
punchline is
that it was basic execution that ended
up pulling you out of that sure so
talk to me what is the strong man what
is that whole concept yeah so you know
the the this critic in our minds you
know it's that that nasty voice that
is quick to pass judgment to tell us
what we can't do
uh you know to keep us off the field to
tell us what others are thinking and
saying about us right
and uh the way this sort of critic can
be so
effective so powerful in in in kind of
dominating our lives uh in my
experiences
by uh through
an insistence on perfection right which
is impossible
because the critic insists upon
perfection which essentially guarantees
your failure
uh through comparison relative merit
right that critic will compare you to
anybody right real roman imagine from
any era especially when you compare
unfavorably
you know and the critic will swap out
you know different definitions of
success or value or purpose or
for your own and you know you won't even
notice it
so uh you know the critic and of course
this comes from teddy roosevelt's you
know brilliant remarks about the critic
and the strong man the critic for me
really is sort of that embodiment of uh
you know again our fear of failure you
know our uh our own worst enemy in our
minds
roosevelt strongman on the other hand
you know is someone who
has no use for perfection right only
progress right someone who values effort
and growth whose focus is the mo is
momentum right the next step not this
overarching enterprise this overwhelming
endeavor but
what is my next step uh
and you know for the strong man uh
success lies in in striving and actually
striving right towards a noble pursuit
which at the end of the day
is the only thing we can control right
uh whether or not uh we are striving to
our best toward a noble pursuit and the
outcome is less important it's funny you
mentioned that uh you know at the time
that i was going through it i i
obviously did not know that we were
going to turn around odc construction
and it would be a great success you know
you make a big decision
and you know later it either
works out phenomenally well or is a
catastrophic failure well it's so
tempting
in the face of the catastrophic failure
to go back and beat yourself up and say
oh this was the worst decision and i'm
an idiot and this was terrible and
likewise
in the face of great success it's very
easy for people to tell themselves well
man i must have been a genius right i'm
the smartest guy there is
and
just as a law of physics right as a
proposition of logic that can't be true
it cannot be that subsequent events
you know determine the the quality of
actions you make decisions you make
conversations you have you know
behaviors you exhibit
you have to assess those things from the
perspective of you know the time in
which they take place so how does that
how does that pan out in my experience
was i uh you know uh
you know visionary genius to to buy this
uh struggling construction company you
know when we did
no it was i mean it was a disaster we
thought we were buying uh you know a
humble company but a going concern and
we we bought
some you know company that was sinking
like a stone
uh did it work out well yeah of course
and it worked out phenomenally well i'm
blessed be on contemplation you know
again i credit the team with that and
and the timing and the vision and luck
and all those things but
now i'm not going to go back and say it
was uh you know a great decision um and
likewise this is the harder part
likewise um you know i think it's really
important that we don't uh you know we
don't read our own press right we don't
get too excited about uh great outcomes
where maybe the the decisions that led
to them or the journey along the way was
uh you know was less than
uh worthy now that makes a lot of sense
there's a quote in your book about the
strong man that that echoes what you
just said which i thought was so
powerful i want to read it um exactly as
it is the strong man savors the first
step he is impatient for it craves it as
long as he strives valiantly with his
first step he has won
what do you mean by that
we are uh you know so often our own
worst enemies right we we keep ourselves
uh you know off the stage you know for
fear of bad reviews
and don't even realize that you know in
the process we're you know forgetting
how to dance and losing to join in right
and it's just such a shame you know for
me that first step of the strong man to
me kind of conveys it encompasses you
know uh sort of victory over that critic
right that's where you've said look
maybe this is crazy maybe it's not maybe
you know maybe everybody thinks i'm you
know way off base here whatever all the
what ifs although you know why why i
should why should whatever i put all
that aside
and i have committed to you know enter
the arena
and that is the defining moment i think
for the strong man
and uh i
i think when we're honest with ourselves
and when we start to recognize
significance in in moments like that in
our lives when we start to say well if i
did this it would be it's a big move
right and it doesn't have to be a huge
move
financially or economic or even you know
it doesn't have to make sense to anyone
else why it's a big move it's a big move
for you it's important to pay attention
to those feelings because often that's
that's the strong man inside trying to
tell you
we can do this you know we let's get
over this uh you know our fears let's
get over our uh you know our self-doubt
and let's let's do this
you've talked earlier about how people
misperceive things they misperceive
success and that the critic will even
change the definition of success what is
an anchor point a vision of success is
there something that's universal that
you think applies to everybody or is
there a process to defining success in a
way that will resonate i don't think so
personally i think
you know
who am i to even begin to contemplate
what
someone else should or should not
aspire to do with their time or their
lives or whatever right we're all
masters of our own universes right alone
in our own worlds and and i you know i
don't purport to tell anyone how they
should behave or what they should aspire
to or what success should be
however
i certainly think everybody
you know should figure it out you should
figure it out for yourself because
time's going to go by either way and you
can live a life of happenstance of
reaction
uh you know or you can take some time to
figure out how you want to spend your
time who you want to be who you want to
be at work you know who you want to be
as a parent who you want to be as a
spouse and on and on and on and and you
know you can you can try to be that
person and you can try to live that life
so that's what i have in mind when i say
you know you you really uh should define
your success your purpose and and labor
towards it
well let's get really specific then so
you've had
such a diverse life
one i'll just walk through a few uh why
not you have success in hollywood but
you immediately stop uh you then have
success at law that is just on another
planet and you stop obviously the tech
firm ended up doing very well but as far
as i know you moved out of that fairly
rapidly
so all of these things like you've
been able to break free of the trap that
most people get into which is there's
momentum in their life they're
succeeding everyone says they're crazy
when they go to leave but you've done
that over and over and over so you
obviously are way in touch with your
balance sheet
so like what walk us through one or two
of those and really say like leaving law
i'm gonna guess was the hardest one like
you'd so that was a tough invested like
how what did you walk through what were
the i've got this going but not this so
that was a tough one uh
on uh you know unless and until i
actually thought about it rationally and
logically right and then it when then it
was pretty obvious which those are often
the hardest decisions to make right but
so you know here i was i had been
blessed to have phenomenal experiences
in law in the public sector right
working for the justice department uh
clerking for a couple
u.s supreme court justices
i love that and then i sort of took the
easy path the direct path you know
accepted a a phenomenal cushy job at a
very fancy elite law firm international
law firm and parents were very very
proud i had gorgeous business cards and
a skyscraper office and all that but uh
you know i was expected to you know to
work to build you know 60 70 crazy hours
every week
and i was involved in kind of
litigation as warfare with
a constant view towards
the billings of the law firm and and it
just wasn't the way i wanted to practice
law
a lot of people weren't people i wanted
to practice law with
i certainly didn't want to spend you
know 100 hours a week doing it just none
of that made any sense
so
everybody thought i was completely nuts
and maybe they're right but uh you know
the more i thought about it the more i
said look you know nothing is permanent
in life there's nothing that says if i
ever want to practice law again i can't
go back to it or in some other capacity
or you know some other city or whatever
but you know for now what's important to
me and what am i looking to accomplish
in my life you're going back to that
balance sheet um and at that point in my
life really by far above all else you
know it was it was really quality of
life and time with my family got to talk
to my roommate zach as you mentioned and
and you know we thought hey
let's buy a small business together and
he would help me you know you'd pay for
most of it but he would keep his fancy
day job i'd leave behind my fancy day
job and run it and you know what could
possibly go wrong
so that was the
uh the thesis i guess you would say
that brought us to orlando and that you
know sort of took me to uh uh take the
helm as the first chief executive
officer of our uh residential
construction subcontractor
and of course uh you know they say man
plans god laughs uh didn't it didn't
didn't turn out quite that way but uh
that was a good decision at the time
uh to to leave law that was the right
decision for me and my family so then
the construction company blows up you
make a lot of right decisions i'm sure
you'd attribute it a lot obviously to
the team but to luck as well yes
but now things are going well and
instead of just continuing to scale it
and grow it you decide that you want to
back off again a pretty atypical choice
well
so look you know
again my goal was
quality of life for my family you've
said that happiness is a choice sure in
what way how do we choose to be happy
everything's a choice every moment of
your life is a choice uh how do you want
to spend that moment who do you want to
be it is not the circumstances we
confront
that dictate the lives we experience it
just cannot be there are counter
examples all over the place i'm just a
blind guy like that's no big deal but
when you think about
prisoners of war who endure the most
unspeakable of uh you know human
atrocities nazi concentration camp
survivors and on and on and you find
examples of remarkable people who
despite these circumstances make a
choice
to find purpose in life to find joy to
be a source of strength for others in
their lives and you know these these
shining folks you know again to my mind
prove categorically
it's not the circumstances we confront
that dictate how we you know the lives
we experience so
choose to be happy literally in every
moment and again i'm not saying it's
easy again and i'm not you know i'm not
saying it's always easy for me but it's
certainly a worthwhile endeavor i mean
you know you
spill on yourself or you you knock
something over or you know you're late
for a meeting or
you know it can derail you it can
be you know something quote unquote
awful meanwhile most of the world is
worried about uh you know healthcare and
food and clothing but um you know or you
can choose to laugh about it you can
choose to have fun with it you can
choose to let it go and
again every i think every moment is is
you know uh an amalgam of precisely
those choices
and i think it behooves us to spend some
time thinking about our answers and do
you have a process or a mantra or is it
as simple as choosing to laugh when you
want to do anything else to actually
manifest that happiness it's not simple
i don't i don't think there's much in
life that's simple everything's nuanced
it really it sort of it depends on on
the context here in times of crisis is a
little different than fear of failure
and other sorts of things so there's
some nuances there and then so other
strategies i think we can bring to bear
to look at things like luck in our lives
and the fundamental idea like i said is
you know you're the master of your
reality
and you know once you buy that
once you're willing to take
responsibility for the fact that you are
literally creating uh the life you are
experiencing the reality you know your
reality is your creation
again the rest is details most people
spend 70 percent of their life
living in survival and living in stress
so they're they're always anticipating
the worst case scenario people become
addicted to the rush of those emotions
and they use the problems and conditions
in their life to reaffirm their
limitation